---
title: 'BioML Challenge 2024'
date: 2024-10-8
permalink: /posts/2024/10/bioml/
tags:
  - De novo Binder Design
  - RFDiffusion
  - ProteinMPNN
  - AlphaFold
  - Chai-1
---

CAR-T cell therapy is a type of cancer treatment where a patient's own T cells, a type of immune cell, are genetically modified to fight cancer. The process involves extracting T cells from the patient, engineering them to express a Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) that specifically targets cancer cells, and then reintroducing these modified cells into the patient's body. Once inside, the CAR-T cells recognize and attack the cancer cells, helping to eliminate the tumor. An open question in the field of CAR-T cell therapy is how to design effective antigen-binding domains that can specifically target cancer antigens and trigger a robust immune response. 

This project aims to design binding domains for a Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) that will engage the extracellular region of cancer antigen CD20. The goal of this project is to gain practical experience in the binder design workflow, implement a standardized pipeline, and explore how different, SOTA generative models play a critical role in the design process. Furthermore, the project will apply advanced AI tools to the design challenge, observing both their capabilities and limitations in generating functional CAR antigen binders.

Method Overview
======
I employed a standard pipeline encompassing backbone generation, inverse folding, and filtering to tackle the challenge. For binder design with the RFdiffusion model, our focus was on generating binder backbones that specifically target epitope 3 of CD20, located in the extracellular region. A diverse subset of these backbones was selected for inverse folding using ProteinMPNN, producing multiple sequence designs for each backbone. AlphaFold2 was then used to validate the 3D structures of the sequence designs by comparing the RMSD score to the original backbone. Finally, the Chai-1 model predicted the complex formed between CD20 and the filtered binder sequences. After excluding complex predictions that failed to meet the correct binding site and extracellular constraints, I ranked the binder sequences based on their iptm scores output by Chai-1.


Backbone Generation via RFDiffusion
------

Inverse Folding via ProteinMPNN
------

Relaxed Filtering via AlphaFold2 Initial Guess
------

Final Complex Validation via Chai-1
------
